update dynamic sampling docs (#5688)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/data-management-settings/dynamic-sampling/index.mdx

sidebar_order: 1
redirect_from:
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/current-limitations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/sampling-configurations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/dynamic-sampling/current-limitations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/dynamic-sampling/sampling-configurations/
description: "Learn about Sentry dynamically prioritizes your transaction data."
---

> Capturing a single [trace](/product/sentry-basics/tracing/distributed-tracing/) — which consists of one or more transactions — involves minimal overhead, but capturing traces for every page load or every API request might overload your system. Sentry automatically prioritizes your transactions, server-side, so that we can provide you with the most valuable insights about your application’s performance while also applying helpful prioritization to the data we retain for you.

Reviewer: This is a pitch for client-side sampling. With server-side sampling, every trace is still captured and sent to the server.

Author: Thanks for the heads up. I'll take that out!

_Health check_ type transactions, while important for checking the stability of your application, don't have any value for you beyond the task associated with them. They also tend to be high in volume, potentially using up a lot of you quota if retained. To avoid using up your volume on this type of transactions, we ignore these when sampling your data.

While we do our best to provide you with the most useful transaction data, our **Dynamic Sampling** feature allows you to turn the priorities that we apply to your data retention on or off. By default, these toggles are all enabled so that Sentry's dynamic sampling priorities are applied to your data:

![The Dynamic Sampling page with priority toggles enabled.](dynamic-sampling.png)

<!-- placeholder and needs to be updated before PR is merged -->

Because every project is different, you can set these toggles differently for different projects. For example, you may have a project where retaining transactions from the latest release is not a priority for you.

> ## Server-side Controls & Client-side Sampling

Author: ```suggestion
## Dynamic Sampling & SDK Sampling
```

> Dynamic sampling also makes your SDK (client-side) and your server-side configuration largely independent of each other. This helps if you're building native applications with many active releases at a given time.

Author: ```suggestion
Dynamic sampling and your SDK sampling configuration are largely independent of each other. This helps if you're building native applications with many active releases at a given time.
```

> Our dynamic sampling works best when you send us as much data as you can (ideally 100% but we'll take what you can give us). As you purchase more transaction volume, however, your per-transaction pricing goes down accordingly.

Author: ```suggestion
Our dynamic sampling works best when you send us as much data as you can (ideally 100%, but we'll take what you can give us). As you purchase more transaction volume, however, your per-transaction pricing goes down accordingly.
```

sidebar_order: 1
redirect_from:
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/current-limitations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/sampling-configurations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/dynamic-sampling/current-limitations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/dynamic-sampling/sampling-configurations/

>   - /product/sentry-basics/metrics/
>   - /product/sentry-basics/sampling/

Author: ```suggestion
```

redirect_from:
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/current-limitations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/server-side-sampling/sampling-configurations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/dynamic-sampling/current-limitations/
  - /product/data-management-settings/dynamic-sampling/sampling-configurations/
description: "Learn about Sentry dynamically prioritizes your transaction data."
---

Capturing a single [trace](/product/sentry-basics/tracing/distributed-tracing/) — which consists of one or more transactions — involves minimal overhead, but capturing traces for every page load or every API request might overload your system. Sentry automatically prioritizes your transactions, server-side, so that we can provide you with the most valuable insights about your application’s performance while also applying helpful prioritization to the data we retain for you.

By default, we prioritize transaction data in the following ways:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

| Prioritize | Ignore |
|------------|--------|
| Latest release | Health checks |
| Dev environments | |

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> We prioritize data from development environments because these environments typically generate a relatively small number of transactions compared to your production environments. As a result, to gain meanginful insights during your testing phase, we prioritize transaction data from these environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We prioritize data from development environments because these environments typically generate a relatively small number of transactions compared to your production environments. As a result, to gain meaningful insights during your testing phase, we prioritize transaction data from these environments.
```

_Health check_ type transactions, while important for checking the stability of your application, don't have any value for you beyond the task associated with them. They also tend to be high in volume, potentially using up a lot of you quota if retained. To avoid using up your volume on this type of transactions, we ignore these when sampling your data.

While we do our best to provide you with the most useful transaction data, our **Dynamic Sampling** feature allows you to turn the priorities that we apply to your data retention on or off:

![The Dynamic Sampling page with priority toggles enabled.](dynamic-sampling.png)

<!-- placeholder and needs to be updated before PR is merged -->

> Because every project is different, you can set these toggles differently for different projects. For example, you may have a project where the retaining transactions from the latest release is not a priority for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because every project is different, you can set these toggles differently for different projects. For example, you may have a project where retaining transactions from the latest release is not a priority for you.
```

> By default, these toggles are all enabled so that Sentry's dynamic sampling priorities are applied to your data.

Reviewer 2: should this be a callout / highlighted?

Author: Putting this in a note box sometimes actually risks people skipping over it, but I've moved it up to above the image so hopefully since I think you're right that it's important to state it sooner.

## Server-side Controls & Client-side Sampling

Dynamic sampling also makes your SDK (client-side) and your server-side configuration largely independent of each other. This helps if you're building native applications with many active releases at a given time.

> Our dynamic sampling works best when you send us as much data as you can (ideally 100% but we'll take what you can give us). As you purchase more transaction volume however, your pricing does down accordingly and you see significant savings. If we don't think we're able to provide you with good quality data because your client-side sampling rate is too low, we'll let you know.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our dynamic sampling works best when you send us as much data as you can (ideally 100% but we'll take what you can give us). As you purchase more transaction volume, however, your pricing does down accordingly and you see significant savings. If we don't think we're able to provide you with good-quality data because your client-side sampling rate is too low, we'll let you know.
```
